(“abstract”,” abstract keyword is used to implement the abstraction in java.”)
(“boolean”,” The boolean data type has only two possible values: true and false. Use this data type for simple flags that track true/false conditions.”)
(“break”,” Break Statement is a loop control statement that is used to terminate the loop.”)
(“byte”,”The byte data type is an 8-bit signed two's complement integer. It has a minimum value of -128 and a maximum value of 127 (inclusive).”)
(“catch”,” The catch keyword catches exceptions generated by try statements.”)
(“char”,”The char data type is a single 16-bit Unicode character. It has a minimum value of '\u0000' (or 0) and a maximum value of '\uffff' (or 65,535 inclusive).”)
(“class”,”A class in the context of Java, is a template used to create objects and to define object data types and methods.”)
(“continue”,” The continue statement discontinues the current iteration of the current control statement and begins the next iteration.”)
(“default”,”The continue statement discontinues the current iteration of the current control statement and begins the next iteration.”)
(“double”,”The double data type is a double-precision 64-bit IEEE 754 floating point.”)
(“do-while loop”,”Java do-while loop is used to iterate a part of the program repeatedly, until the specified condition is true.”)
(“enum”,” (Enumeration) this language feature was introduced in J2SE 5.0. Technically enumerations are a kind of class containing enum constants in its body.”)
(“extends”,” The idea behind inheritance in Java is that you can create new classes that are built upon existing classes.”)
(“finally”,” A finally syntax contains all the crucial statements that must be executed whether exception occurs or not. The statements present in this block will always execute regardless of whether exception occurs in try block or not such as closing a connection, stream etc.”)
(“float”,” The float data type is a single-precision 32-bit IEEE 754 floating point. Its range of values is beyond the scope of this discussion, but is specified in the Floating-Point Types, Formats, and Values section of the Java Language Specification.”)
(“for”,”Java for loop  is an entry-controlled loop that facilitates a user to execute a block of a statement(s) iteratively for a fixed number of times.”)
(“if”,”if statement is the most simple decision-making statement.”)
(“if....else”,”if...else statement is a control flow statement that allows you to execute a block of code only if a certain condition is met.”)
(“implement”,”An interface is implemented by a class using the implements keyword. It is allowed to implement more than one interface, in which case they are written after implements keyword in a comma-separated list.”)
(“int”,”By default, the int data type is a 32-bit signed two's complement integer, which has a minimum value of -231 and a maximum value of 231-1.”)
(“interfaces”,”Interfaces are types which contain no fields and usually define a number of methods without an actual implementation. They are useful to define a contract with any number of different implementations. Every interface is implicitly abstract.”)
(“long”,”The long data type is a 64-bit two's complement integer. The signed long has a minimum value of -263 and a maximum value of 263-1. In Java SE 8 and later, you can use the long data type to represent an unsigned 64-bit long, which has a minimum value of 0 and a maximum value of 264-1.”)
(“private”,”The private keyword is an access modifier used for attributes, methods and constructors, making them only accessible within the declared class.”)
(“protected”,”The protected keyword is an access modifier used for attributes, methods and constructors, making them accessible in the same package and subclasses.”)
(“public”,” public is a Java keyword which declares a member's access as public. Public members are visible to all other classes.”)
(“return”,”The return statement is used to end method execution and to return a value. A value returned by the method is written after the return keyword. If the method returns anything but void, it must use the return statement to return some value.”)
(“short”,”The short data type is a 16-bit signed two's complement integer. It has a minimum value of -32,768 and a maximum value of 32,767 (inclusive).”)
(“static”,”static keyword is used to define the class level members of a class. static members of a class are stored in the class memory and you can access them directly through class name.”)
(“String[]”,”string is basically an object that represents sequence of char values. An array of characters works same as Java string.”)
(“switch(statement)”,”It allows a variable to be tested for equality against a list of values. 
(“try”,”It is used to catch exceptions that might be thrown as your program executes.”)
(“void System.out.print(String s)”,”will perform the basic print s”)
(“void System.out.println(String s)”,”will perform the print with a newline”)
(“void System.out.println()”,”will print a newline”)
(“while”,” It is a control flow statement that allows code to be executed repeatedly based on a given Boolean condition.”)
